right so I thought I'd talk about
identity that's all really interesting
enough topic to me and and the reason
was because when I was asked to do this
I just read in one of the papers I can't
remember something from someone at
Facebook saying well we need to make
everybody use their real names and then
that's basically all the problems solved
and that's so wrong that's such a
fundamentally reactionary view of
identity and it's going to get us into
all sorts of trouble and so what I
thought I'd do is I'll explain four sort
of problems about it and then I'll
suggest a solution which hopefully you
might find interesting
so just to frame the problem or what
does authenticity mean that's me look at
that just to go to your point that's a
camera phone picture of me looking at a
painting that's a painting that was
painted by a very famous forger and
because I'm not very good at
presentations I already can't remember
the name that I wrote on my card and he
was incarcerated and I think Wakefield
prison for forging masterpieces by I
think French Impressionists and he's so
good at it that when he was in prison he
everybody imprisoned the governor
whenever wanted into paint masterpieces
to put on the walls because they were so
good and so that's a masterpiece which
is a fake of a masterpiece and bonded
into the bonded into the canvas is a
chip which identifies that as a real
fake if you see what I mean so so just
you know when we're talking about orphan
just it's not as it's a little more
fractal than it appears and that's a
good example to show it okay so forth
I've tried to pick for problems that
will be that will that will frame the
issue properly so the first problem I
thought chip-and-pin right everyone's
got a chip and pin card
I'm guessing everyone's got chip and pin
card right so so why is that a good
example that's an example of how legacy
thinking about identity subverts the
security of a well-constructed system
those cut that your chip and pin card
that's in your pocket has a little chip
on it the cost millions of pounds to
develop is extremely secure you can put
scanning electron microscopes on it you
can try and grind it down blah blah blah
those chips have never been broken
whatever you read in the paper and for a
joke we take that super secure chip and
we bond it to it
counterfeit herbal magnetic stripe and
for very lazy criminals we still
embossed the car so if you're a criminal
in a hurry and you need to copy
someone's car you can just stick a piece
of paper and rub a pencil over it just
to sort of speed things up
and even more amusingly and on my debit
card - we print the name and the saw
code and everything else on the front -
why what there is no earthly reason why
your name is printed on a chip and pin
card and if you think about it it's even
more insidious and perverse and it's
things those because the only people
that benefit from having the name on the
card our criminals you know what your
name is right and when you go into a
shop and buy something they don't care
it's a pin you doesn't care what the
name is it's only the only place where
you ever have to write your name on the
back is in America at the moment
whenever I go to America and I have to
pay with the mag stripe on the back of
the gun Oh with sign at Carlos Tevez
anyway just as a security mechanism
because I just figure if a transaction
ever gets dispute and it comes back and
it says Dave birch I know it must have
been a criminal because I would never
sign a jaybird so so if you drop your
card in the street it means a criminal
can pick it up and read it they know the
name from the name they can find the
address and then they can go off and buy
stuff online why did we put the name on
the card
because we think identity is something
to do with names and because we're
rooted in the idea of like the identity
card which obsesses us and I know it
crashed and burned a couple of years ago
but if you're you know someone in
politics or the home office or whatever
and you think about identity you can
only think of identity in terms of cards
with names on and that's that's very
subversive in in in the modern world so
the second example I thought I'd use is
chat rooms that's my that's why I'm very
proud of that picture that's my son
playing in his band with his friends for
the first ever gig I believe you call it
where he got paid and I love that
picture I like the picture of him
getting into medical school a lot better
that I mean I like that picture for the
moment why do I use that picture because
that was very interesting watching that
experience as an old person was very
interesting experience me so him and his
friends they get together they booked
her a room like a church hall and
they've got all their friends who've had
bands and they've got
and they do it on Facebook and then they
sell tickets and the first band on them
on the I was gonna say menu that's
probably what wrong word for it isn't it
the first band on the list of bands that
appears at some public music performance
of some kind gets the sales from the
first 20 tickets then the next band gets
the next 20 and so on and I thought they
were bottom of the menu they were like
fierce I thought they'd have no chance
he actually got 20 quit fantastic right
but my point is that all worked
perfectly except on the web so so
they're sitting on Facebook and they're
sending these messages and arranging
things and they don't know who anybody
is right that's the big problem we're
trying to solve if only they were using
the real names the you know then you
wouldn't be worried about them on the
Internet and so when he says to me oh I
want to go to a chatroom to talk about
whatever it was sender with guitars or
something I remember exactly I'm like oh
well I don't know I don't want you to go
into a chatroom to talk about guitars
without them you know because they might
all be your friends and some of the
people are in the chatroom might be you
know perverts and teachers and vicars I
mean they usually are I mean they
generally are when you look in the paper
right so so I want to know who all the
people in the chatroom are right so okay
you can go in the cherub only if
everybody in the chatroom is using their
real names and they submit full copies
of their police report and but of course
if anybody in the chatroom asked for his
real name I'd say no you can't give them
your real name because what happens if
they turn out to be perverts and
teachers and whatever when you pseudo
mean so you have this odd sort of
paradox where I'm happy Fame to go into
this space if I know who everybody else
is but I don't want anybody else to know
who he is and so you get this sort of
logjam around identity where you want
full disclosure everybody else but not
from yourself and there's no progress we
get stuck and so the chatroom think
doesn't work properly and it's it's a
very bad way of thinking about identity
Cheerilee so on my RSS feed I saw this
thing about I just said so bad
about my RSS feed doesn't know should
stop saying it like that for some random
reason I can't imagine something about
cheerleaders turned up in my inbox and I
read this story about cheerleaders and
it's a fascinating story this happened a
couple of years ago in the u.s. there
were some cheerleaders in a
in a team at a high school in the US and
they said mean things about their
cheerleading coach as I'm sure kids do
about all of their teachers all of the
time and somehow the cheerleading coach
found out about it she was very upset
and so she went to one of the girls and
said you have to give me your Facebook
password I read this all the time where
you know it's some even at some
universities and places of Education
kids are forced to hand over their
Facebook password so you've got to give
me your Facebook password and so the
kids she was a kid what she should have
said is my lawyer will be calling you
first thing in the morning outrageous in
position on my Fourth Amendment right to
privacy and you're going to be sued for
all the money but that's what she should
have said but she's a kid so she hands
over the password the teacher can't log
into Facebook because the school has
blocked access to Facebook right so the
teacher can't log into Facebook till she
gets oh so the girl tells her friends
guess what happened the teacher logged
in as so the girls just all logged into
Facebook on their phones and deleted
their profiles and so when the teacher
logged in there was nothing there my
point is those identities they don't
think about them the same way right to
them identity is especially when you're
a teenager our a fluid thing they have
lots of identities you experiment with
different and if you have an identity
you don't like it because it's subvert
it in some way or it's insecure or it's
in a probe you just delete it and get
another one
you know I think that you have an
identity that's given to you by someone
the government or whatever you have to
stick with that identity and use it in
all places that's absolutely wrong you
know I mean why would you want to really
know who someone was on Facebook unless
you wanted to abuse them and harass them
in some way doesn't work properly and my
fourth example is there are some cases
where you really want to be so in case
you're wondering that's me at the g20
protest I wasn't actually at the g20
protest but I had a meeting at a bank
and we got on the on the day of the g20
protest and I got an email from the bank
saying please don't wear a suit because
it'll inflame the protesters obviously I
look pretty good in a suit frankly so
you can see why it would drive them into
an anti-capitalist frenzy so I thought
well look if I don't want to if I don't
want to inflame the protesters the
obvious thing to do is go dressed as a
protester so I went dressed completely
in black you know with like black
balaclava dark very black gloves on but
I've taken them off to sign the visitors
book I'm wearing black trousers
black boo I went dressed completely in
black I go into the back at 10 o'clock
oh hi I'm Dave birch I've got a three
o'clock we're sewing so they sure they
sign me in there's my visitor's badge on
the so that's that's what this so this
nonsense about you know you gotta have
real names on Facebook and whatever that
gets you that kind of security that gets
you security theater where there's no
actual security but people are sort of
playing parts in a play about security
and as long as everybody learns their
lines everyone's happy but it's not real
security right so especially cuz I hate
banks more than to g20 protesters do
because I work for them you know I know
things are actually worse than these
guys think so but suppose I suppose I
wanted suppose I worked next to somebody
in a bank who was doing something you
know they were like what those people
who take the money from banks and don't
you know they take the money
oh traders that's think you know suppose
I'm sitting next to a rogue trader right
and I want to report it to the boss of
the bank so I log on to do a little bit
of whistleblowing I send the message
this guy's a rogue trader that message
is meaningless if you don't know that
I'm a trader at the bank right if that
message just comes from anybody it has
zero information value it has there's no
point in sending that message you have
to know that I am but if I have to prove
Who I am
I'll never send that message it's just
like the nurse in the hospital reporting
the drunk surgeon or you know that
message will only happen if I'm
anonymous so the system has to have ways
of providing anonymity of it otherwise
we don't get where we want to get to so
so for issues right so what are we going
to do about it well what we tend to do
about it is we think about all
well-spaced and we try to make
electronic versions of the identity card
that we got rid of in 1953 so we think
well only if we had a card call it a
facebook login which proves who you are
and they make you carry all the time
that solves the problem of course for
all those reasons I've just outlined it
doesn't and it might actually make some
problems worse the more times you're
forced to use your real identity in
transit certainly a transactional terms
the more likely that identity is to get
stolen and subverted the goal is to stop
people from using identity
in transactions which don't need
identity which is actually almost all
transactions almost all of the
transactions you do are not who are you
there are you allowed to do are you
allowed to drive the car are you allowed
in the building are you over 18 etc etc
so my suggestion I like James think that
there should be a resurgent of interest
in R&D I think this is a solvable
problem it's something we can do about
naturally in these circumstances I turn
to Doctor Who because because in this as
in so many other walks of life doctor
who has already shown us the answer
so I should say for some of our foreign
visitors dr. who is the greatest living
scientist in England and a beacon of
truth and enlightenment to all of us and
this is Doctor Who with his psychic
paper right who see come on you guys
must have seen doctor so you're not
nerds if you say yes who's seen Doctor
Who's psychic paper oh right you're in
the library the whole time studying I
guess is that though is that what you're
going to tell us don't do psychic paper
is when you hold up the psychic paper
the person in their brain sees the thing
that they need to see right so I want to
show you a British passport I hold up
the psychic paper you see a British
passport I want to I want to get into a
party I hold up the psychic paper I show
you a party invitation you see what you
want to see so what I'm saying is we
need to make an electronic version of
that but with one tiny tiny change which
is that it'll only show you the British
passport if I've actually got one yet
let me show you the party invitation if
I actually have one it will only show
that I'm over 18 if I actually am over
18 but nothing else
so you're the you're the bouncer at the
pub and you need to know that I'm over
18 instead of showing you my driving
license which shows you that I know how
to drive what my name is my address all
these kind of things I show you my
psychic paper and all it tells you is
that am i over 18 or not right is that
just a pipe dream of course not
otherwise I would be here talking to you
so in order to build that and make it
work we need oh I'm only going to name
these things I'm not going to we need a
plan
which is we're gonna build this as an
infrastructure for everybody to use to
solve all of these problems we're gonna
we're gonna make it a utility utility
has to be universal you can use it
everywhere I'm just going
little flashes of the technology to go
along that's a Japanese ATM the
fingerprint template is stored inside
the mobile phone so when you want to
draw money out you put the mobile phone
on the ATM and touch your finger your
fingerprint goes through to the phone
the phone says yes that's whoever then
the ATM then gives you some money so
have to be a utility that can use it you
can use everywhere it has to be
absolutely convenient that's me going
into the pub I touch my all that all the
device on the door the pub is allowed is
this person over 18 and not barred from
the pub okay and so the idea is you
touch your ID card to the door and if I
am allowed in it shows my picture if I'm
not allowed in it shows a Red Cross it
doesn't disclose any other information
it has to have no special gadgets that
can only mean one thing following on
from rostov statement which I agree with
completely if it means no special
gadgets it has to run on a mobile phone
that's the only choice we have let's
make it work on mobile phones there are
6.6 billion mobile phone subscriptions
my favorite statistic of all time only 4
billion toothbrushes in the world that
means something I don't know what I rely
on a futurologist
to tell me it has to be a utility which
is extensible so it has to be something
that anybody can build on anybody should
be able to use it infrastructure you
don't need permissions licenses whatever
anyone should be able to write some code
to do this and well you know what
symmetry is so you don't need a picture
of it ok and this is how we're gonna do
it we're gonna do it using phones I'm
going to do it using mobile proximity
I'm gonna suggest to you the technology
to implement Doctor Who's psychic paper
is already here and if any of you have
got one of the new Barclays debit cards
with the contactless interface on it
you've already got that technology if
anybody hears used if you ever been up
to the big city and used an oyster card
at all does that ring any bells to
anybody the technology will exist the
first phones that have the technology
built in the Google Nexus the yes to the
Samson Wi-Fi so make the first phones
that have got this technology built into
them already into the shop so the idea
that the gas man can turn up at my mum's
door and he can show my mum his phone
and she can tap it with her phone and it
will come up with green if he really is
from British Gas than allowed in and it
will come up with red if he is an end of
story
we have the technology to do that and
what's more although some of those
things sound a little bit
counterintuitive like proving I'm over
18 without proving who
the cryptography to do that not only
exists it's extremely well-known and
well-understood digital signatures the
blinding of public key certificates
these technologies have been around for
a while
we've just had no way of packaging them
up so the technology already exists we
know it works
it's it's there are a few examples of
the technology being used in
experimental places that's London
Fashion Week where we built a system
with o2 that's for the wireless festival
in Hyde Park you can see the person's
walking in with their VIP band it's just
being checked by the Nokia phone that's
reading the band I'm only putting those
up to show you these things are prosaic
this stuff works in these environments
you're known to be special so finally
finally I know that you can do this
because if you saw the episode of Doctor
Who the Easter special of Doctor Who
where he went to Mars in a bus I should
say again for our foreign students that
doesn't happen in every episode this was
a very special case so in the episode
where he goes to Mars in a London bus
he's clearly shut I can't show you the
clip due to the outrageous restrictions
of Queen Anne style copyright by the BBC
but in the episode where he goes to Mars
in a London bus doctor who is clearly
shown getting onto the bus with the
Oyster card reader using his psychic
paper which proves that psychic paper
has an NFC interface thank you very much
you